# WiFi-strength-based-navigation-with-obstacle-avoidance--Real-Time-Embedded-Systems

Overview:
Obstacle avoiding bot and RSSI navigation. 
Details:
Navigation towards the beacon: In this project we have used a dual motor chassis powered by 4 AA batteries. The bot starts at a location and navigates in 4 (front, back left and right) directions with respect to its starting position. The bot polls for 6 RSSI values from the beacon and takes an average of the detected RSSI vales of every direction and stores them in variables favg, bavg, ravg and lavg. The most negative of these values indicate the approximate direction of the beacon with respect to the bot. We use a function called pick_a_dir() to perform the polling action. After detection the correct direction the bot is made to rotate in order to align it towards the beacon. We then use a function called goAhead() with a delay of few seconds. After the bot moves forward towards the beacon for few seconds it polls for the correct direction once again. To make sure that the bot retains its movement in the correct direction we poll again in order to compensate for wheel slipping. We have also incorporated three ultrasonic sensors, MUX to increase pin count (also powered separate 4AA batteries) in order to avoid L shaped obstacles.  Eventually the bot is made to stop once it recaches near the beacon. We have also incorporated three ultrasonic sensors, MUX to increase pin count (also powered separate 4AA batteries) in order to avoid L shaped obstacles.  
